Can you tell me a little bit more about where your father was working in a shop which was owned by his brother-in-law?
Yes, his brother-in-law owned it.
Can you tell me more about the shop?
It was a drapery shop.
You did in the shop?
It was four units in one and during the war it was terribly busy.
The coupons, the shop, the coupons and all that.
And did a bit of pawnbroking, sawed a bit of jewelry as well, footwear.
And he had three girls working there permanently, besides my father.
And near Christmas it was like a football ground.
I used to run the till when I used to go down to help.
We used to have, I don't know if I can explain you, at the far end of the shop, they used to put the money into a container.
And they used to come on a wire.
Like a woodshare?
Yeah. And there were three of those, which all led to the office.
And in those days, many, many people in the valleys took out credit coupons, vouchers they call them.
For example, you could borrow 20 pounds, okay, and you'd have this.
So you could now buy 20 pounds with the goods.
But you'd repay, the customer now would have to repay the people, say, a pound a week for 25 weeks.
That's how everyone made money out of it.
So when people bought with those vouchers, they'd have to fill it all in and there were damn nuisance.
But there were a lot of turnover.
And we as a shopkeeper had to pay a commission too, onto these.
There was Premier, there were about three different companies doing that work.
And what happened is they defaulted?
Oh, that was none of our business.
That was no problem.
We got the money back from the credit people.
So you stepped over a little bit, pawnbroking.
Well, it was a joke.
But really, I don't know how I can describe it.
It was a mining community, right?
Yeah.
Miners earn very, very little.
So we had customers where the woman would come in on a Monday,
where her husband had worn his best suit for church on Sunday,
and we'd give her two shillings.
And when he got paid on Friday, she'd come back in and pay us two and three,
two shillings and throppens, to get the suit out for the husband.
And then Monday would come back in again.
Well, that was life in those days.
Sounds a joke now, but that was life.
That's a side of things that some people don't like talking about,
but was your family happy to talk about that?
Oh, I've got an eye.
I was only a small percentage of people doing it.
Yeah.
But...
Is that equivalent to a payday loan now?
Yeah, well, it's the same thing.
People still get credit, and you pay commission on credit.
Everybody makes money, except the poor chap who buys the credit.
OK.
What happened to the shop in the end?
Well, business got slower and slower.
I was letting my father be packed up.
My uncle died the same year, so his wife owned it.
And then a member of...
Where did my son come from?
Well, his son-in-law came and took over.
But business got slower and slower, and they eventually closed it down.
I don't know what year. 1980-odd.
And this was in Penrugklaiba?
Penrugklaiba, yeah.